# disable_open_record
Odoo Module for being able to disable the annoying Popup when clicking on a One2many Child and examples how to use this module to improve usability showing One2many fields in Odoo

**The problem**

Odoo has some serious usability flaws. One of them is opening a popup form when you click on a One2many row in a tree view. Now, when clicking on an object on that form, it opens in the background of the popup. At first, the user cannot see the object opening in the background. The second problem is, you have to close the popup form to see the object that has opened in the background.

For example: There is the sale order with sale order lines. When clicking on a sale order line the line opens in a popup. Now, when the user clicks on a product to see what that product is, it opens behind the popup form of the sale order line. A new user won't see the product opening in the background. But even an experienced user has to close the order line popup first in order to see the product. 

This is not great usability!

**The solution**

Install the module *disable_open_record*. Now, if you define a tree inside the One2many field you can give it an `open="false"` attribute. The line belonging to such a tree will be unclickable and gets the CSS style `cursor: auto`. Then, if you want the details of this line to be shown in a form for the objects of this form to be available to be clicked on, you should place a button inside this tree bound to a method which opens the form like this:

```
    @api.multi
    def open_this(self):
        return {
            'view_type': 'form',
            'view_mode': 'form',
            'view_id': False,
            'res_model': 'de.codeschneider.child',
            'type': 'ir.actions.act_window',
            'nodestroy': True,
            'target': 'current',
            'res_id': self.id,
        }
```

Now the behavior is as expected and the One2many element does not open in a popup but in a form from where you navigate further while having your path in the breadcrumb navigation. *Isn't this far more explicit and less confusing for the user?*

If you want this behavior for a new model stick to `example_1.xml` in `disable_open_record_example`. `example_2.xml` gives you an example on how to inject this pattern for the existing relations `sale.order` and `sale.order.line`. If there is no tree to inject the attribute `open = "false"`, you can set this attribute for the field too. Since Odoo does not define a form for `sale.order.line` and the form generated by Odoo looks creepy there is one explicitely defined.
